= Amazon S3 output plugin for Fluent event collector

== Overview

*s3* output plugin buffers event logs in local file and upload it to S3 periodically.

This plugin splits files exactly by using the time of event logs (not the time when the logs are received). For example, a log '2011-01-02 message B' is reached, and then another log '2011-01-03 message B' is reached in this order, the former one is stored in "20110102.gz" file, and latter one in "20110103.gz" file.


== Installation

Simply use RubyGems:

    gem install fluent-plugin-s3

If you want to install your own build of fluent-plugin-s3 locally,

    gem build fluent-plugin-s3.gemspec
    gem install fluent-plugin-s3-0.2.3.gem

== Configuration

    <match pattern>
      type s3

      aws_key_id YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID
      aws_sec_key YOUR_AWS_SECRET/KEY
      s3_bucket YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME
      s3_endpoint s3-ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com
      path logs/
      buffer_path /var/log/fluent/s3

      time_slice_format %Y%m%d-%H
      time_slice_wait 10m
      utc
    </match>

[aws_key_id (required)] AWS access key id.

[aws_sec_key (required)] AWS secret key.

[s3_bucket (required)] S3 bucket name.

[s3_endpoint] s3 endpoint name. Example, Tokyo region is "s3-ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com".

[path] path prefix of the files on S3. Default is "" (no prefix).

[buffer_path (required)] path prefix of the files to buffer logs.

[time_slice_format] Format of the time used as the file name. Default is '%Y%m%d'. Use '%Y%m%d%H' to split files hourly.

[time_slice_wait] The time to wait old logs. Default is 10 minutes. Specify larger value if old logs may reache.

[utc] Use UTC instead of local time.

The actual path on S3 will be: "{path}{time_slice_format}_{sequential_number}.gz"

[format] The row format. Use this to extract, and then format values from logged records (serialized in JSON) to simple rows of plain-text. For example, the configuration `format {key1} {key2}` formats the record `{"key1":"fluent","key2":"s3"}` to `"fluent s3"`.

== Copyright

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2011 Sadayuki Furuhashi
License::   Apache License, Version 2.0

